Another important topic now is something called electrical potential.
Notice it's missing the word energy.
There's not what we just saw it's similar.
And it'll be related to it but it's a little bit different.
All right.
But before we do that let's first look at what we had.
So we had electrical force right.
Force was a vector.
If we had point charges for example we could write down that the force was K Q1 Q2 over our squared.
Let me just write point charges just to remind ourselves here.
All right.
The other thing we had were that electric charge produce a field around them and that was something
we had called an electric field we called it e..
OK.
And again let me just write it down k q 1 for example divided by our squared.
And this was also four point charges.
We just put an arrow up here those quantities.
Now if I place they another charge inside that electric field produced by Q1 I could have a force acting
between them.
All right.
So we could actually also write the force as being the charge Q2 that I place inside that electric field
e.
Okay.
And actually this is true whether we're talking about point charges or whether I'm talking about a point
charge inside the field produced by a parallel plate capacitor.
Right.
This equation down here is actually quite general.
So let me kind of highlight this one.
It's kind of the general case.
Now all of these quantities here are vector quantities.
So they have a magnitude and a direction associated with it.
Well we just focused on now was having electrical potential energy.
And the formula we had for the electrical potential energy.
It looked similar to the magnitude of the force except it was only divided by R instead of our squared.
All right.
So in order for there to be a force you need at least two charges in order for there to be electrical
potential energy you need at least two charges.
All right.
Further to be an electric field there only needs to be one charge that produces the electric field around
it.
Well we're going to say now is we're going to introduce this new concept called electrical potential
and we're gonna use the letter V to describe it.
So it's kind of like the same principle like what happens if we only have one charge.
There's not electrical potential energy because there's only one charge.
But what we're gonna say is that this charge is going to produce a field around it.
In this case here this is.
Let me just define you here this is what we call the potential and this is going to be an example of
a scalar field.
It's not like electric field electric field is a vector field.
It has a magnitude any direction at every point in space for the electrical potential.
What we're going to have is only a number the number could be positive or negative it could be zero.
We're going to find that and we're going to look at the cases for point charges for parallel plates.
OK.
And we're going to see how it's can actually be used to calculate the electric field.
So let's go ahead and start with point charges that's the easiest case and then we'll add to this picture
right here of the connection now between these four things.